# Step 1: Install a build tool 
The first step is to install a build tool like vite, parcel, or rsbuild. These build tools provide features to package and run source code, provide a development server for local development and a build command to deploy your app to a production server.

# Vite 
Vite is a build tool that aims to provide a faster and leaner development experience for modern web projects.
## initialise vite project
```
npm create vite@latest my-app -- --template react
```
## run the following command
```

  cd my-app      
  npm install     -> add node module folder
  npm run dev     -> start the server 

  ```

# Application structure
Vite gives us everything we need to develop a React application. Its initial file structure looks like this:
```
my-app
├── README.md
├── index.html
├── node_modules
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── public
│   └── vite.svg
├── src
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── App.jsx
│   ├── assets
│   │   └── react.svg
│   ├── index.css
│   └── main.jsx
└── vite.config.js

```
index.html is the most important top-level file. Vite injects your code into this file so that your browser can run it. You won't need to edit this file during our tutorial, but you should change the text inside the <title> element in this file to reflect the title of your application. Accurate page titles are important for accessibility.

The public directory contains static files that will be served directly to your browser without being processed by Vite's build tooling. Right now, it only contains a Vite logo.

The src directory is where we'll spend most of our time, as it's where the source code for our application lives. You'll notice that some JavaScript files in this directory end in the extension .jsx. This extension is necessary for any file that contains JSX – it tells Vite to turn the JSX syntax into JavaScript that your browser can understand. The src/assets directory contains the React logo you saw in the browser.

The package.json and package-lock.json files contain metadata about our project. These files are not unique to React applications: Vite populated package.json for us, and npm created package-lock.json for when we installed the app's dependencies. 


├── src
│   ├── App.css --> css for the page
│   ├── App.jsx --> htlm code inside app function ( component )
```jsx
import './App.css'

function App() {
  

  return (
    <>
      <h1>Learning react</h1>
    </>
  )
}

export default App


```


│   ├── assets
│   │   └── react.svg
│   ├── index.css --> css for the page 
│   └── main.jsx --> to render the page 

```jsx

import { StrictMode } from 'react'
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client'
import './index.css'
import App from './App.jsx' 

createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(
  <StrictMode>
    <App />
  </StrictMode>,
)
```